# AAP-Task-1

Problem StatementYou workfor aconsumer finance companywhichspecializesin lending various types of loans tourban customers. When the company receives a loan application, the company has to make a decision for loan approval based on the applicant’s profile. Twotypes of risksare associated with the bank’s decision:If the applicant islikely to repay the loan, then not approving the loan results in aloss of businessto the companyIf the applicant isnot likely to repay the loan,i.e. he/she is likely to default, then approving the loan may lead to afinancial lossfor the companyThe data given below contains the information about pastloan applicants and whether they ‘defaulted’ or not. The aim is to identify patterns which indicate if a person is likely to default, which may be used for taking actions such as denying the loan, reducing the amount of loan, lending (to risky applicants) at a higher interest rate, etc.In this case study, you will use EDA to understand howconsumer attributesandloan attributesinfluence the tendency of default.When a person applies for a loan,there aretwo types of decisionsthat could be taken by the company:1.Loan accepted:If the company approves the loan, there are 3 possible scenarios described below:oFully paid: Applicant has fully paid the loan (the principal and the interest rate)oCurrent: Applicant is in the process of paying the instalments, i.e. the tenure of the loan is not yet completed. These candidates are not labelled as 'defaulted'.oCharged-off: Applicant has not paid the instalments in due time for a long period of time, i.e. he/she hasdefaultedon the loan2.Loan rejected: The company had rejected the loan (because the candidate does not meet their requirements etc.). Since the loan was rejected, there is no transactional history of those applicants with the company and so this data is not available with the company (and thus in this dataset)
Business ObjectivesThis company is the largest online loan marketplace, facilitating personal loans, business loans, and financing of medical procedures. Borrowers can easily access lower interest rate loans through a fast-online interface.Like most other lending companies, lending loans to ‘risky’ applicants is the largest source of financial loss (called credit loss). The credit loss is the amount of money lost by the lender when the borrower refuses to pay or runs away with the money owed. In other words, borrowers whodefaultcause the largest amount of loss to the lenders. In this case, the customers labelled as 'charged-off' are the 'defaulters'.If one is able to identify theserisky loan applicants, then such loans can be reduced thereby cutting down the amount of credit loss. Identification of such applicants using EDA is the aim of this case study.In other words, the company wants to understand thedriving factors (or driver variables)behind loan default, i.e. the variables which are strong indicators of default. The company can utilize this knowledge for its portfolio and risk assessment.Dataset and Data Dictionary: AttachedResults Expected1.Write all your code in one well-commented R file; briefly mention the insights and observations from the analysis.2.Explain the results of univariate, bivariate analysis etc. in business terms.3.Include visualizations and summarize the most important results.4.Form narrative questions from the dataset? Try to answer  those questions with supportive visualizations ?
